---
layout: post
title: Equation of life
---

# Preface

This concept is nothing new. I did come up with the "equation" on my own, but of course, as with most things in life, turns out, there are people who've thought about these things way before you have and have thought about them in a much more systematic manner.

The components of the equation will mirror those from **Maslow's hierarchy of needs**.

All I did is regroup them and rearrange them in a less hierarchical fashion, as I don't believe that there's necessarily a rigid, generalizable hierarchy for everyone.

Before I go any further, here's a mapping chart between **Equation of life** and **Maslow's hierarchy of needs**.


| Equation of life | Maslow's hierarchy of needs |
| ---------- | ------------------- |
| Essentials | physiological needs |
| Essentials | Safety needs |
| Sense of community | Love and social needs |
| Ego wants | Esteem needs |
| Ego wants | Cognitive needs |
| Ego wants | Aesthetic needs |
| Ego wants | Self-actualization |


# The equation

$$ Life = w_e * Essentials + w_c * Sense of community + w_w * Ego wants $$

In words, the equation of one's life's worth (i.e. happiness, satifaction, etc.) is a weighted sum of the absolute essentials, the desire for community, and wants created by the ego.

The weights on each is highly individual, and of course, depends heavily on one's circumstances.

Given this framework, every individual should be able to work out what the weights are, and proceed to live their life accordingly.

I can't sit here and say that our own assessment of these weights aren't influenced at all by what others around us think;
however, we should all strive to be as conscientious as possible when determining them.

After all, it's my life, not yours.

The only other thing I'll say about these weights - one of the most common life's tragedy is living one's life as if the $w_w$ is infinitely higher than the other two weights, only to find out in the later that it wasn't.

A typical mishap when the ego is left unchecked for too long.

# Motivation

I have to thank my good friend and his wedding for the inspiration for the equation.
It served as a stark reminder that perhaps I was falling into the same trap that I've described above.
Caught myself slippin'.

So, shoutout to the good friend and his family and friends.